Begin documentation of Assets and Notes (#41)
Kruptein/planarally-docs: docs/dm/assets.md

# Assets

The asset menu is used for inserting assets into your game. 
These can be maps, tokens, objects, or anything else you wish to insert. 

> To access this menu, click <font-awesome :icon="['far', 'compass']"/> and click “Assets” from the dropdown menu.

Reviewer: Compare the change in #39 where I ran into the same problem. You can copy. :-)

## Asset Manager

![](./asset-manager.png)

If you’re just starting out, you will have no assets. 
To add them, you will need to enter the Asset Manager by clicking ![](./assets-link.png).

### Creating Folders

![](./asset-manager-create-folder.png)

To create a folder, click the create folder icon.
A dialogue box should appear where you can write the new folder name.
With the folder created, you can place your assets into the folder for easier navigation.

### Uploading Files

![](./asset-manager-upload-files.png)

To upload files, click the upload files icon.
This will open your file system.
Choose the asset you wish to upload to your campaign.
Once uploaded, your files will be accessible in-game. 

## Placing Assets

![](./asset-example.gif)

To use your assets, first open the asset tab. 
Then, open the folder where you have stored your files.
Last, drag the asset onto the game board. 
Your asset will now be able to be manipulated.

## Manipulating Assets

You can move your assets by selecting the “select” tool.
Then you can click and drag the asset.

> ![](asset-list.png)

Reviewer 2: just took a quick look why the build is failing and this image should have a ./ ;)

Author: Oh dang, my bad! I'll go ahead and fix the image. To fix the build failing, would I need to add links to these two documents to the doc-links.yaml file? Apologies if this is a pretty basic question, I'm still a little new to git and coding and general

These allow you to do specific things with your assets.

### Layer

Hovering over the “Layer” option in the list lets you change which layer you want your asset on.
For more information, check the [layers](/docs/dm/layers.md) document.

### Move to Front & Move to Back

These options place your asset at either the front or the back of the layers.
This allows you to place multiple objects on the same layer but have them overlap in specific ways.

### Add initiative or Show initiative

This option places the asset in the initiative menu.
If already in the initiative menu, this will appear as “show initiative”.
For more information, check the [initiative](/docs/tools/intiative.md) document.

### Delete shapes

This option deletes your asset.

### Show properties

This option opens the “Edit asset” menu, described below.

### Set marker

This option sets the asset as a marker.
When an object is added as a marker, it can be accessed from the dropdown menu.
To access the Markers menu, click <font-awesome :icon="['far', 'compass']"/> and “Markers”.
In the Markers menu, you can click the object to quickly snap your view to that object.

## Edit asset

> ![](/docs/dm/edit-asset.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![](./edit-asset.png)
```

By right clicking and selecting the “Show properties” option, you open the “Edit asset” menu.
This menu includes a plethora of options.

### Is a token

Selecting this option classifies the asset as a token. 
This will help you keep track of which assets are tokens and which are other assets.

### Is invisible

> Selecting this option turns the asset invisible to your players.

Reviewer: Another note: Player with sufficient access can render a token invisible by themselves, right?

> Selecting this option turns the asset invisible to your players.

Reviewer 2: correct

As the DM, you will still be able to see the asset.
This can be useful for hiding future encounters or placing enemies in stealth. 

### Is locked

Selecting this option locks the object in place.
This can be useful for maps you don’t want to accidently move while playing.

### Show badge

Selecting this option displays a badge at the bottom right of the object.

### Blocks vision/light

Selecting this option blocks vision and light from passing through the object.

> More information about lighting can be found in the [lighting and vision](/docs/dm/light-shadows.md) document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
More information about lighting can be found in the [lighting and vision](/docs/dm/light-shadows/) document.
```

### Blocks movement

Selecting this option prevents other objects from moving through it.
This is useful for creating walls in your dungeon you don’t want your players to pass through.

### Border colour & Fill colour

These options control the color of the borders around and the fill color of default tokens. 

### Access

Here is listed the players who have access to the asset.
Selecting a player name and “add access” will allow them to interact with the asset.
Selecting any of the icons next to “default” gives all players access to the asset.

> The pen icon allows those with access to edit the asset.

Reviewer 2: maybe use the fontawesome icons here as well

The four arrows icon allows those with access to move the asset unless locked.

> The lightbulb icon allows those with access to see the asset. 

Reviewer 2: The lightbulb allows users to see the private auras/lights the shape has

### Trackers

Trackers can track numerical values of assets, such as health to player tokens.
To use, under “name” label the value you wish to track, such as health.
Next, write the current value which the player has and the maximum value.
By clicking the eye icon, you can toggle whether this information is public to all players or strictly visible to the DM.

With these values established, when you click the asset, you will now see the values in a quick menu.

> You can quickly edit these values by clicking the number and typing in the new value.

Reviewer 2: As hinted at by dthv, the update field also accepts values like `-10` or `+5` to do quick simple subtraction/addition

Reviewer: I actually never managed to get this to work. How should it work? Just clicking into the respective field and typing `+5`? I should probably file a bug, then.

This can be used for health, gold, death saves, or any other value that you need to track. 

### Auras

Auras are visible light which emanates from an asset.
These can be any color or strength you wish.

> More information about lighting can be found in the [lighting and vision](/docs/dm/light-shadows.md) document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
More information about lighting can be found in the [lighting and vision](/docs/dm/light-shadows/) document.
```

### Labels

> ![](/docs/dm/label-manager.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![](./label-manager.png)
```

Labels allow the DM to categorize objects.
To start, type a category at the bottom left.
Then, type a name within that category.
This will appear above.
Under Cat. is the category, and under Name is the specific member of that category.

To assign an asset its category, click on the label in the list.
To the right is an eye icon, which makes this label public.
Beside that is the option to delete the label.

Once these categories have been defined, you can click “filter” in the bottom right corner.
This will present a menu of all categories.
Enabling one shows you all assets with that category.

### Annotation

> At the bottom of the Edit asset menu is a space to write anything localized on that one asset.

Reviewer 2: These annotations will also appear at the top of your screen when you mouseover the shape!

The asset menu is used for inserting assets into your game. 
These can be maps, tokens, objects, or anything else you wish to insert. 

> To access this menu, click the cog icon and click “Assets” from the dropdown menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access this menu, click the <font-awesome :icon="['fas', 'cog']"/> icon and click “Assets” from the dropdown menu.
```

Last, drag the asset onto the game board. 
Your asset will now be able to be manipulated.

> ## Manipulating Objects

Reviewer: Not sure wheter this could be simply a link to the upcoming `gameboard.md` file I'm currently working on. But maybe I will simply merge this into my work when this is done. :)

Author: For this, once you have completed that document, I'd recommend replacing this section with a link to that file.

To temporarily disable this, hold down ```Alt```. 

To deslect shapes, press the ```d``` key. 

![](./asset-list.png)

Right clicking on a shape will give you a list of options.
These allow you to do specific things with your shapes.

### Layer

Hovering over the “Layer” option in the list lets you change which layer you want your shape on.
For more information, check the [layers](/docs/dm/layers/) document.

### Move to Front & Move to Back

These options place your shape at either the front or the back of the layers.
This allows you to place multiple objects on the same layer but have them overlap in specific ways.

### Add initiative or Show initiative

This option places tokens in the initiative menu.
If already in the initiative menu, this will appear as “show initiative”.
For more information, check the [initiative](/docs/tools/intiative/) document.

### Delete shapes

This option deletes the selected shape(s).
You may also press ```Del``` to do this.

### Show properties

This option opens the “Edit asset” menu, described below.

### Set marker

This option sets the shape as a marker.
When an shape is added as a marker, it can be accessed from the dropdown menu.

> To access the Markers menu, click the cog icon and “Markers”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access the Markers menu, click the <font-awesome :icon="['fas', 'cog']"/> icon and “Markers”.
```

### Is a token

Selecting this option classifies the object as a token. 
Tokens function fundamentally differently than other shapes.

Tokens cannot pass through shapes with the 'blocks movement' option enabled. 
Tokens are also effected by lighting.
Check the [lighting and vision](/docs/dm/light-shadows/) document for more information on how lighting works in relation to tokens.

> 

Reviewer: It just occured to me and it might be helpful for players: Instead of deleting user-controlled, but incapacitated tokens (e.g. familiars, animal companions, summoned monsters etc.) or modifying their vision, they can simply be de-tokened, so to say, in order to let the controlling player no longer benefit from its vision.

Maybe this can be formulated better/easier and included, here? :)

### Is invisible

> Selecting this option turns the shape invisible to your players.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Selecting this option turns the shape invisible to all players, except those with vision or edit access to the shape.
```
This is more or less an "equal" feature in a sense that it can and should both be used by players and DMs.

As the DM, you will still be able to see the shape.

> This can be useful for hiding future encounters or placing enemies in stealth. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be useful for having objects that are invisible but player-controlled, or invisible, but still affecting movement. 
```
Hiding future encounters or placing enemies in stealth is the thing the DM layer was designed for, imho. :)

> Players with vision or edit access will still see the object with this enabled.

Reviewer: (If suggestion to line 110 is accepted, this line can be removed.

There is currently no special indicator that shows it's invisible to other users. 

### Is locked

Selecting this option locks the shape in place.
This can be useful for maps you don’t want to accidently move while playing.

> Press ```Cntrl + L``` to do this without opening the Edit asset menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Press ```Ctrl + L``` to do this without opening the Edit asset menu.
```

> ### Show badge

Reviewer: I'd like to see a bit more info on badges. As far as I've used them, they're incrementing numbers, but it would be helpful to know (and write down here) how exactly the numbers are counted. I.e.: one list, including every shape? one list for each location? one list for each type of asset? etc.

Honestly, I do not know the answer, but it should be easy to find/test out at least the basics (and then, of course, look into the code and/or ask its master).

Selecting this option displays a badge at the bottom right of the shape.

### Blocks vision/light

Selecting this option blocks vision and light from passing through the shape.
More information about lighting can be found in the [lighting and vision](/docs/dm/light-shadows/) document.

### Blocks movement

Selecting this option prevents other shapes from moving through it.

> This is useful for creating walls in your dungeon you don’t want your players to pass through.

Reviewer: Maybe mention the `shift`-keybinding for DMs, here?

### Border colour & Fill colour

These option applies to basic tokens.
Border colour controls the colour of the borders around the basic token
Fill colour of controls the colour of the inside of the basic token.

### Access

Here is listed the players who have access to the shape.
Selecting a player name and “add access” will allow them to interact with the shape.
Selecting any of the icons next to “default” gives all players access to the shape.
The pen icon allows those with access to edit the shape.
The four arrows icon allows those with access to move the shape unless locked.
The lightbulb icon allows those with access to see the shape. 

### Trackers

> Trackers can track numerical values of shapes, such as health to player tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Trackers can track various values of shapes, such as health to player tokens, or attitude to NPC.
```
Any input seems to be accepted. This is, in my opinion, very much wanted behaviour, as you can e.g. track NPC's attitude (hostile/friendly etc.) or whatever else, without needing a table to cross-reference numerics. :)

![](./label-manager.png)

Labels allow the DM to categorize shapes.
To start, type a category at the bottom left.
Then, type a name within that category.
This will appear above.
Under Cat. is the category, and under Name is the specific member of that category.

To assign an shape its category, click on the label in the list.
To the right is an eye icon, which makes this label public.
Beside that is the option to delete the label.

> Once these categories have been defined, you can click “filter” in the bottom right corner.

Reviewer: On the long run, this should be exported to a separate `filter` entry under `tools`.
